---
layout: page
---

<p>The Internet Freedom Hackathon is about working, as a group, to empower ourselves and others to improve the world through technology. We are committed to providing a safe and welcoming space, without regard to age, gender, race, ethnicity, nationality, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, mental or physical disability, physical appearance, neuro(a)typicality, religion, level of knowledge, level of experience, parental status, marital status, socioeconomic status or background, political affiliation, or any other attribute. The mentors and organisers of the Internet Freedom Hackathon share the responsibility of enforcing these policies as necessary to maintain an open and welcoming environment.</p>

<p>As the organisers of the Internet Freedom Hackathon, we believe that the below principles are essential to maintaining this environment. In addition, we believe that they are good principles for life in general.</p>

<h2>Applicability</h2>

<p>This code of conduct serves to ensure that everybody and anybody who wishes to participate is able to do so, and applies to all Internet Freedom Hackathon events. Further, it applies to online activities related to the Internet Freedom Hackathon.</p><h2>Principles</h2><h3><strong>Do Not Harass</strong></h3><p>Harassment is any unwelcome or hostile behavior towards another person for any reason. This includes, but is not limited to, offensive verbal comments related to personal characteristics or choices, sexual images or comments, deliberate intimidation, bullying, stalking, following, harassing photography or recording, sustained disruption of discussion or events, nonconsensual publication of private comments, inappropriate physical contact, or unwelcome sexual attention. Conduct need not be intentional to be harassment.</p><p>The organisers will not tolerate such behavior.</p><h3><strong>Respect the Opinions and Abilities of Others</strong></h3><p>The Internet Freedom Hackathon is a place for people all of different skill levels and approaches to meet and work together toward common goals. As a result, we do not expect that everybody will share the same opinion. However, we do expect that disagreement is done respectfully.</p><p>Additionally, we expect that participants will educate others respectfully. To this end, do not assume anybody else’s level of expertise or knowledge. Do not belittle a lack of information, or insist on unnecessary precision. We are all learning, so afford others—as well as yourself—room to grow.</p><h3><strong>Keep Your Team Open</strong></h3><p>Except for instances where it would significantly impede productivity, there is always room on an Internet Freedom Hackathon project for one more person. Unless doing so would be counter-productive to the goals of the project, anybody who is interested in a project is allowed to join it.</p><h2>Aspirations</h2><p>While this document exists primarily to prevent certain bad behavior, we also believe that our community members should work towards a higher standard. To that end, we strongly encourage the following conduct, though they are considered aspirational rather than necessary.</p><h3><strong>Build With, Not For</strong></h3><p>Work to ensure that the community is well-represented in all stages of development. Seek out those who are under-represented, and remove barriers to access. Listen as much—or more—than you speak, and give full consideration to all ideas, even if they seem improbable at first.</p><h3><strong>Empower, Experiment, and Find a Way for Everybody to Contribute</strong></h3><p>When more people share their knowledge and skills, they give a project a greater chance to succeed. When somebody shows up with an unusual skill, look for ways to fit them into the team rather than reasons why it wouldn’t work. Experiment with new approaches, and don’t be afraid to try something that might not work.</p><h2>Procedures</h2><h3><strong>Making a Report</strong></h3><p>If you are unable to resolve the issue, or are uncomfortable doing so, you should contact a mentor or organiser, either in person or electronically. Mentors and organisers agree to keep information shared in association with a Code of Conduct violation private, and may reveal it only with the approval of the affected person(s).&nbsp;</p><p>When making a report, the following information is useful, but not required:</p><ul><li>Who violated the Code of Conduct?</li><li>Where and when did the violation occur?</li><li>What happened?</li><li>Who may have witnessed the violation?</li><li>Who are you?</li></ul><h3><strong>Outcomes</strong></h3><p>Our mentors and organisers agree to treat all violations impartially, and will strive to apply this code of conduct consistently. In situations where this may not be possible due to personal or business relationships, mentors and organisers shall refer the violation report to another appropriate decision-maker with the approval of the affected person(s).</p><p>Mentors and organisers may take any appropriate action, including expulsion and a ban from future events, to resolve a violation of this code of conduct. In the event of grey areas, precedence will be given to the target of the conduct.</p><h2>Contributing to this document</h2><p>This is a living document and is ultimately owned by the Internet Freedom Hackathon community. We are interested in your comments and suggestions! You can contribute by contacting a mentor or organiser.</p><h2>Credit</h2><p>This code of conduct was heavily inspired by Code for DC's very similar document, who’ve done an excellent job of crafting it, in our opinion.</p><p><br>&nbsp;</p>